.\"
.\" Epydoc graphical interface man page.
.\" $Id: epydocgui.1 405 2002-11-07 10:52:37Z edloper $
.\"
.TH EPYDOCGUI 1 
.SH NAME
epydocgui \- graphical interface to epydoc
.\" ================== SYNOPSIS ====================
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B epydocgui
.RI [ project.prj " | " modules ...]
.PP
.B epydoc \-h
.PP
.B epydoc \-V
.\" ================== DESCRIPTION ====================
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B epydocgui
is a graphical interface to epydoc, which generates API documentation
for Python modules and packages, based on their docstrings.  A
lightweight markup language called
.B epytext
can be used to format docstrings, and to add information about
specific fields, such as parameters and instance variables.
.PP
The API documentation produced by 
.B epydocgui
consists of a set of HTML files.  Two subdirectories are created for
the public and private documentation.  Within each subdirectories,
every class and module is documented in its own file.  An index file,
a trees file, and a help file are also created.  If you select the
.B frames
option, then a frames\-based table of contents is also produced.
.\" ================== OPTIONS ====================
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I project.prj
The name of a project file that was saved with
.BR epydocgui .
Project files record a list of related modules, and the options that
should be used to generate the documentation for those modules.
.TP
.IR modules ...
The list of the modules that should be documented.  Modules can be
specified using module names (such as
.BR os.path ),
filenames (such as
.BR epydoc/epytext.py ),
or directory names (such as
.BR epydoc/ ).
Directory names specify packages, and are expanded to include
all sub-modules and sub-packages.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help, \-\-usage, \-?
Display a usage message.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print the version of Epydoc.
.\" ================== HTML FILES ====================
.\" (this was copied from epydoc.1)
.SH HTML FILES
The API documentation produced by 
.B epydoc
consists of the following files:
.RS 4
.TP
.B index.html
The standard entry point for the documentation.  Normally,
.B index.html
is a frame index file, which defines three frames: two frames on
the left side of the browser contain a table of contents, and the main
frame on the right side of the window contains documentation pages.
But if the 
.B \-\-no\-frames
option is used, then
.B index.html
will redirect the user to the project's top page.
.TP
.BI m- module .html
The API documentation for a module.  
.I module
is the complete dotted name of the module, such as 
.B sys
or
.BR epydoc.epytext .
.TP
.BI c- class .html
The API documentation for a class, exception, or type.
.I class
is the complete dotted name of the class, such as
.B epydoc.epytext.Token
or
.BR array.ArrayType .
.TP
.B trees.html
The module and class hierarchies.
.TP
.B indices.html
The term  and identifier indices.
.TP
.B help.html
The help page for the project.  This page explains how to use and
navigate the webpage produced by epydoc.
.TP
.B toc.html
The top\-level table of contents page.  This page is displayed in the
upper\-left frame, and provides links to
.B toc\-everything.html
and the
.BI toc\-m\- module .html
files.
.B toc.html
is not generated if the
.B \-\-no\-frames
option is used.
.TP
.B toc\-everything.html
The table of contents for the entire project.  This page is displayed
in the lower\-left frame, and provides links to every class, type,
exception, function, and variable defined by the project.
.B toc\-everything.html
is not generated if the
.B \-\-no\-frames
option is used.
.TP
.BI toc\-m\- module .html
The table of contents for a module.  This page is displayed in the
lower\-left frame, and provides links to every class, type, exception,
function, and variable defined by the module.
.I module
is the complete dotted name of the module, such as 
.B sys
or
.BR epydoc.epytext .
.BI toc\-m\- module .html
is not generated if the
.B \-\-no\-frames
option is used.
.TP
.B epydoc.css
The CSS stylesheet used to display all HTML pages.
.RE
.PP
By default,
.B epydoc
creates two subdirectories in the output directory:
.B public
and
.BR private .
Each directory contains all of the files specified above.
But if the
.B \-\-no\-private
option is used, then no subdirectories are created, and the public
documentation is written directly to the output directory.
.\" ================== DIAGNOSTICS ====================
.\" (this was copied from epydoc.1)
ivided into five categories: import errors; epytext
errors; epytext warnings; field warnings; and inspection errors.
Whenver epydoc encounters an error, it issues a warning message that
describes the error, and attempts to continue generating
documentation.
.PP
Import errors indicate that epydoc was unable to import a module.
Import errors typically prevent epydoc from generating documentation
for the module in question.  Epydoc can generate the following import
errors:
.RS 4
.TP
.BI "Bad module name " module
Epydoc attempted to import
.IR module ,
but
.I module
is not a valid name for a Python module.
.TP
.BI "Could not find a UID for " link-target
Epydoc was unable to find the object referred to by an inline link
construction
.RB ( "L{...}" ).
This is usually caused by a typo in the link.
.TP
.BI "Could not import " module
Epydoc attempted to import
.IR module ,
but it failed.  This typically occurs when
.I module
raises an exception.
.TP
.IB file " does not exist"
Epydoc attempted to import the module contained in
.IR file ,
but
.I file
does not exist.
.RE
.PP
Epytext errors are caused by epytext docstrings that contain invalid
markup.  Whenever an epytext error is detected, the docstring in
question is treated as a plaintext docstring.  Epydoc can generate the
following epytext errors:
.RS 4
.TP
.B Bad link target.
The target specified for an inline link contruction
.RB ( "L{...}" )
is not well-formed.  Link targets must be valid python identifiers.
.TP
.B Bad uri target.
The target specified for an inline uri contruction
.RB ( "U{...}" )
is not well-formed.  This typically occurs if inline markup is nested
inside the URI target.  
.TP
.B Fields must be at the top level.
The list of fields
.RB "(" @param ", etc.)"
is contained by some other
block structure (such as a list or a section).
.TP
.B Fields must be the final elements.
The list of fields
.RB "(" @param ", etc.)"
is not at the end of a docstring.
.TP
.B Headings must occur at top level.
The heading is contianed in some other block structure (such as a
list).
.TP
.B Improper doctest block indentation.
The doctest block dedents past the indentation of its initial prompt
line.
.TP
.B Improper heading indentation.
The heading for a section is not left-aligned with the paragraphs in
the section that contains it.
.TP
.B Improper paragraph indentation.
The paragraphs within a block are not left-aligned.  This error is
often generated when plaintext docstrings are parsed using epytext.
.TP
.B Invalid escape.
An unknown escape sequence was used with the inline escape construction
.RB ( "E{...}" ).
.TP
.B Lists must be indented.
An unindented line immediately following a paragraph starts with a
list bullet.  Epydoc is not sure whether you meant to start a new list
item, or meant for a paragraph to include a word that looks like a
bullet.  If you intended the former, then indent the list.  If you
intended the latter, then change the word-wrapping of the paragraph,
or escape the first character of the word that looks like a bullet.
.TP
.B Unbalanced '{'.
The docstring contains unbalanced braces.  Epytext requires that all
braces must be balanced.  To include a single unbalanced brace, use
the escape sequences E{lb} (left brace) and E{rb} (right brace).
.TP
.B Unbalanced '}'.
The docstring contains unbalanced braces.  Epytext requires that all
braces must be balanced.  To include a single unbalanced brace, use
the escape sequences E{lb} (left brace) and E{rb} (right brace).
.TP
.B Unknown inline markup tag.
An unknown tag was used with the inline markup construction (
.IB x {...}
).
.TP
.B Wrong underline character for heading.
The underline character used for this section heading does not
indicate an appopriate section level.  The "=" character should be
used to underline sections; "-" for subsections; and "~" for
subsubsections.
.RE
.PP
Epytext warnings are caused by epytext docstrings that contain
questionable or suspicious markup.  Epytext warnings do
.B not
prevent the docstring in question from being parsed.  Epydoc can
generate the following epytext warnings:
.RS 4
.TP
.B Possible mal-formatted field item.
Epytext detected a line that looks like a field item, but is not
correctly formatted.  This typically occurs when the trailing colon
(":") is not included in the field tag.
.TP
.B Possible heading typo.
Epytext detected a pair of lines that looks like a heading, but the
number of underline characters does not match the number of characters
in the heading.  The number of characters in these two lines must
match exactly for them to be considered a heading.
.RE
.PP
Field warnings are caused by epytext docstrings containing invalid
fields.  The contents of the invalid field are generally ignored.  
Epydoc can generate the following field warnings:
.RS 4
.TP
.BI "@param for unknown parameter " param .
A @param field was used to specify the type for a parameter that is
not included in the function's signature.  This is typically caused by
a typo in the parameter name.
.TP
.IB tag " did not expect an argument."
The field tag
.I tag
was used with an argument, but it does not take one.
.TP
.IB tag " expected an argument."
The field tag
.I tag
was used without an argument, but it requires one.
.TP
.BI "@type for unknown parameter " param .
A @type field was used to specify the type for a parameter that is not
included in the function's signature.  This is typically
caused by a typo in the parameter name.
.TP
.BI "@type for unknown variable " var .
A @type field was used to specify the type for a variable, but no
other information is known about the variable.  This is typically
caused by a typo in the variable name.
.TP
.BI "Unknown field tag " tag .
A docstring contains a field with the unknown tag
.IR tag .
.TP
.BI "Redefinition of " field .
Multiple field tags define the value of
.I field
in the same docstring, but
.I field
can only take a single value.
.RE
.PP
Inspection errors are generated if epydoc encounters problems while
attempting to inspect the properties of a documented object.  Most of
inspection errors do not prevent epydoc from documenting the object in
question.  Epydoc can generate the following inspection errors:
.RS 4
.TP
.BI "The parameters of " inhmethod " do not match " basemethod .
The parameters of the undocumented method
.I inhmethod 
do not match the parameters of the base class method
.I basemethod
that it overrides.  As a result,
.I inhmethod
does not inherit documentation from
.IR basemethod .
If the difference in parameters is intentional, then you can eliminate
the warning by adding a (possibly empty) docstring to
.IR inhmethod .
.TP
.BI "Docmap cannot add a " type
Epydoc attempted to document an object with an unknown type.  This
error is typically generated by packages and modules that manipulate
the import mechanism, such that importing a module produces some other
type of object.
.TP
.BI "UID conflict detected: " uid
Two different objects were assigned the same unique identifier by
epydoc.  This can cause epydoc to substitute the documentation of one
object with the documentation of another object that is assigned the
same unique identifier.  However, this will usually only cause
problems if the two objects with the same unique identifiers are both
modules or classes, in which case the API documentation page for one
object will overwrite the API documentation page for the other object.
.TP
.IB object " appears in multiple builtin modules"
While attempting to determine which module defines the builtin object
.IR object ,
epydoc encountered multiple candidates, and was unable to decide which
candidate was correct.  In this case, epydoc arbitrarily chooses the
first candidate that it finds.
.TP
.IB object " appears in multiple .py modules"
While attempting to determine which module defines the builtin object
.IR object ,
epydoc encountered multiple candidates, and was unable to decide which
candidate was correct.  In this case, epydoc arbitrarily chooses the
first candidate that it finds.
.TP
.IB object " appears in multiple .so modules"
While attempting to determine which module defines the builtin object
.IR object ,
epydoc encountered multiple candidates, and was unable to decide which
candidate was correct.  In this case, epydoc arbitrarily chooses the
first candidate that it finds.
.TP
.BI "Could not find a module for " object
Epydoc was unable to determine which module defines 
.IR object .
If
.I object
is a function, then this will prevent epydoc from generating any
documentation for
.IR object ,
since it does not know what page to put the documentation on.
Otherwise, this will prevent the documentation for
.I object
from including a link to its containing module.
.RE
.\" ================== AUTHOR ====================
.SH AUTHOR
Epydoc was written by Edward Loper.  This man page was originally
written by Moshe Zadka, and is currently maintained by Edward Loper.
.\" ================== BUGS ====================
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to <edloper@gradient.cis.upenn.edu>.
.\" ================== SEE ALSO ====================
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR epydoc (1)
.TP
.B The epydoc webpage
<http://epydoc.sourceforge.net>
.TP
.B The epytext markup language manual
<http://epydoc.sourceforge.net/epytext.html>
